Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four 72. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Aaron standard about the aca.net
open source project and the
actor model. This is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes, and I
am chatting today with Aaron
standard, who works on a
project called archive.net. How are
you? Hi, Scott. Good to
see you. Yeah, thanks for
doing this. I appreciate it.
We, we hung out a
little bit at dotnet fringe,
which is a very fine
conference here in Portland. Yes,
it was, it was a
lot of fun. We gave,
I guess, gosh, like seven
hours of the workshops on
ahca.net and Sunday, and then
had a talk on Monday
and then a little lightening
talk on Tuesday. Yeah, you
did more than just a
presentation. You did a whole
day of workshops. Just breaking
it down. Yeah, I thought
I was going to die
by the time I was
done speaking for like seven
hours straight or whatever it
was pulse, all the questions
I got asked afterwards, but
it was really fun. We
got to train, I think,
50 people on oca.net in
one sitting. So that was
cool. Have you ever done
training like that before? I've
done? Actually, I used to
work as an evangelist at
Microsoft. Did I, did I
did. I worked on the
field team in the United States
for startups in Southern California.
And so we did, I
started this series of no
JS on Azure boot camps.
This would have been like
really late 2011, early 2012.
And I D I've started
on that before to sort
of an all day format,
but usually I had usually
had more people to sort
of help and everything else.
And the content was kind
of, I would say there's
a little bit, there was
a lot less new concepts
to cover and that stuff,
yeah. Everyone was already pretty
familiar with JavaScript and how
web servers work. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. I've actually done. I
used to do full time
training, like, like three, three,
three weeks, a month, 40
hours a week, eight hours
a day standing up in
front of people. And this
was like teaching people classic
ASP. So you had to
teach them like, here's a
request like, Whoa, Whoa, Whoa,
slow down. So you had
to introduce people to ahca.net
to what is that introduced
it to me. Sure. So
ahca.net is a port of
a project called AHCA that
was invented for the JVM
and it was written in
Scala and Java. And what
OCHA is, is an implementation
of the actor model. The
actor model is a very
old concurrent programming technique stemming
back from like 1973 is
when I think it was
invented and the first real
commercial implementation of it that
we all sort of know
and recognize today was the
Erling and OTP programming language.
So if you read the
case study about WhatsApp and
how they're able to have,
you know, like 12 engineers
basically manage their entire infrastructure
for doing 500 million messages a
day or whatever it was,
they're, they're really good. Earl
length, success story type safe.
This company behind, behind the
ACA framework wanted to bring
that same sort of concurrent
programming model to the JVM.
And so they were really
successful in doing that. And
then AHCA kind of evolved
into being a really powerful,
distributed programming framework from there.
One of the properties of
the actor model that makes
that possible is this notion
of location transparency. So what
the actor model really is,
is essentially, you know, an
object oriented programming, everything's an
object, right? And the character
model everything's either an actor
or message. So actors represent
these little classes that effectively
act as like microprocesses, they
can be restarted. They can
be started on a remote
machine, etc. And the way
actors communicate with each other
is via message passing. And
one of the things that
makes it really powerful is
that one act message passing
is inherently asynchronous actors run
on their own thread. You
can have a million actors
share a small thread pool.
And the other thing that's
really special about it is
that if an actor wants
to communicate with another actor
on a remote machine, that
detail is transparent to use
the programmer for sending a
message to a local actor
versus an actor running on
a machine in a remote
data center, a thousand miles
away is a implementation detail
that you don't have to
think about when you're, when
you're sending a message. It's
just, it's something that the,
the location transparency built into
the programming models it takes
care of. Okay. So there's
a lot of concepts there.
So let's, let's tease them
apart a little bit cause
I've had a lot of
questions. So first I remember
being around in the mid
nineties, gosh, is that 20
years ago, you know, basically
when we were doing things
like comm right, the component
object model, and then DICOM,
and it was talked about
that location, transparency was an
implementation detail. I may have
actually been on stage at
some point and said those
words, and there were things
about DICOM that really worked.
But then there was also
kind of a, an oscillation
in the industry where we
switched to the opposite side
and said, wow, we really
should recognize that latency is
a thing and web services.
Then it went the opposite
direction. Not only were they
high latency, but we also
kind of explicitly said that
out of process, cross system
calls costs, how do you
reconcile those two things? So
that's a great question. And
one of the things that's
different between sort of D
calm and calm and the
actor model is that the
actor model is asynchronous by
default, right? So when I
send a message to an
actor, even one of my
local process, it's going to
be, it might not respond
to my message immediately. It
might have a queue of,
you know, million other messages
in front of it has
to work through. And there
might be some delay in
it responding to me. And
that's just on a local
process. Well, if you think
about what the delay might
look like over the network,
particularly when there's latency involved
and all sorts of other
stuff, if you're traveling over
the open internet, that latency
just becomes something you account
for in the design of
your actor system. So you
can use techniques, like for
instance, at the ask method
inside the actor model, where
you say, I expect this
response back from this actor
within this hard time. I
mean this real time constraint.
And if I don't get
a response back, we're going
to time out and then
do something else. So that's
sort of built into your
thinking and modeling about the
problem is that latency is
just a side effect of
asynchronously. Okay. So then if
I can paraphrase to make
sure that I understood with
common D comment was more
of a remote procedure call,
kind of a thing. We're
going to take this object
that has methods on it
and remote it, and then
pretend that it's not really
remote and then feel bad
when it's slow. And you're
saying in a message passing
model, you're, you're expecting that
this isn't an instantaneous thing
that's going to happen. It's
a, Hey, go ahead and
do this, queue this up,
put this order in a
cart or whatever. And because
your system is asynchronous, presumably
all the way back up
into the UI. Yup. Then,
then, then it's a much
different model. Yeah, exactly. So
actors get dispatched asynchronously. So
an actor like actors by
default are extremely lazy. We
have this image on one
of our blog posts were
introduced the concept of actors
where it's literally a mailman
sleeping inside a mailbox. That's
sort of the right model
for thinking about what actors
do. If they aren't receiving
messages, they're just hanging out,
not really doing anything. But
when I messaged arrives in
an actor's mailbox, the actor
then gets dispatched, handles it
and then goes back to
sleep or waits for another
message to come to it.
So the idea is that,
you know, actors are all,
we're all sort of message.
Passing is done asynchronously all
the time, regardless of the
scope of how the actors
are deployed. Okay. So then
when, when I was doing
this stuff, you know, long
time ago we had sockets
on ports and then we
had queues, what kinds of
things can actors communicate over?
So right now by default
actors communicate over sockets. So
it's all done over TCP
or UDP, and you have
the ability to go and
write other custom transports if
you wanted to. So for
instance, if you really wanted
to use a named pipe
or something like that, you
could use that to communicate
between actors, other models that
we do see though, from
customers who are usually trying
to, when I say customers,
I'm referring to my company,
pedal bridge, we provide commercial
support, brocket.net, but what we
see them do, oftentimes they
might have a preexisting system
that has something like an
service bus or rabbit MQ
sitting behind their web front
end. And they want to
use okta.net to more efficiently
handle the processing of those
published messages in that queue.
So a lot of times
what we'll see people do
is write a system that
has a NACA cluster consume
messages off of an existing
message queue. We don't really
recommend that for communicating between
actors because that's so heavy
compared to the builtin actor
message queue and network transport
stuff that oca.net already gives
you. But that's, that's, that's
one model we do see
for people who are transitioning
off of some older system
onto an actor based one.
So as, as someone who's
spent a lot of time
building distributed systems where we
wanted to be able to
choose our transports, how worried
should I be when I
hear that I'm buying into
a model that is not
only a, you know, an
architectural model, but also presumably
an unknown implementation of some
kind of sockets thing that
I've never heard of. Like
I was thinking, Oh, this
is a cool abstraction. And
now I'm thinking, Oh wow,
I have to think about
like, I have to worry
about sockets. Should I worry
about that? Or should I
just let it go? Well,
You shouldn't worry about that.
What OCHA done that gives
you is one. Those are,
there's a built in addressing
system. Every actor has its
own unique URI. And so
when you use and that's,
and that detailed, by the
way, it's usually abstracted away
from you, the actor reference,
which is how actors communicate
in both OCHA and ocha.net,
it's like a handle to
an actor. You don't send
a message directly to an
actor instance. You send a
message to its handle, and
that handles responsible for putting
a message into an actor's
mailbox. Then the mailbox is
responsible for sort of activating
the actor. So there's sort
of a decoupling of the
different pieces of the messaging
infrastructure. There transports like TCP
connections. The ahca.net manages will
be opened for you automatically
when you need to send
a message to a remote
address, the AHCA cluster module,
which is an abstraction that
we have even bigger abstraction
that we have sitting on
top of our remoting capabilities
will distract away a lot
of the addressing and socket
management stuff for you to
a point where all you
have to do is connect
to one node. That is
a well known IP address.
And then from there, your
every individual aka.net process will
be able to essentially form
a connection to any other
node in your network. And
that's sort of handled for
you. Automagically That one node
have all knowledge. Is that,
is that a single point
of failure? No. The one
node you can actually have
more than one node than
one well known node to
communicate with. You just need
to have at least one.
I see. So this is
a clustering strategy that Cassandra
and react and a couple
of other big distributed database
technologies use it's called a
seed node is the exactly.
Yeah. So you see the
cluster with one, one or
more nodes at a well
known address. And that's your
sort of entrance point if
discovering all the other ones
that have joined And then
as nodes come and go,
do they all let each
other know and they'll vote
about what's going on in
the current state of the
city. Yeah, exactly. They use
a gossip protocol to sort
of say, Hey, I can't
connect node a can't connect
to node C anymore. Node
B can't connect to it
either. Okay. Then the leader
will go in and say,
all right, well, no, it
would be he's dead. We
gotta just, you know, go
ahead and remove it from
our, from our routing tables
and everything else. Right. I,
in my mind, when you
just said that gossip protocol,
I have this image in
my mind of like people
texting, like I haven't seen
Frank in a week. Yeah.
I see. All right. I
see. Okay. Thanks. So I
don't think he made it
out of the club. It
took, it took it really
hard last night. Okay. So
if I want to talk
to an actor, I talked
to an actor, a reference
to an actor that goes
over a transport that I
shouldn't worry about and goes
into the actor's mailbox, which
is an internal cue, or
is it being held in
memory It's being held in
memory? It's a, essentially what
it is just a set
of synchronized cues with different
channels. So there's some messages
to get prioritized ahead of
others. So system messages that
are built into okta.net, which
include things like, Hey, you
need to restart because you're
in some faulted state, that
sort of stuff is a
system message. Do I have
to does that durable? Do
I worry about the memory,
the mailbox being in memory?
So we don't have to
worry about the mailbox being
in memory. So to speak.
What we do need to
do though, is for scenarios
where you have messages, where
you need to have guaranteed
delivery by default orcas message,
delivery guarantee is best effort,
which means at most once
month. So that's a pretty
minimal effort when you just
say It's best to kind
of ironically named right, best,
best effort. It's like, I'm
going to do my best.
I will ring your doorbell
once I'll ring your doorbell
ones and I'll leave the
package down. So that's, that's,
what's built into Okta by
default, what you can do.
We have it. So the
way OCHA works is think
of it like home Depot,
you have additional modules that
provide new sets of tools
and parts you'd use to
build a system. We have
one module called AKA dot
persistence. And this is a
way of setting up two
things. One actors that have
durable internal state, where they
basically are able to take
messages and events, source them
to something like Cassandra or
SQL server or Azure table
storage. And if that actor
dies, let's say the entire
process crashes like a machine
went down and you're out
in your Azure cluster and
it comes back. Then it's
able to go and rehydrate
it state from internal source,
we have a special built
in actor called a guaranteed
delivery actor that is able
to maintain a buffer of
that need to be sent
over a wire to another
remote system. And it expects
an acknowledgement back. That message
has not only been received,
but it's also been processed
by the other end of
that connection. And that point,
it basically, DQS the message.
And it's, you don't have
to worry about it being
persisted anymore because it's been
handled. You mentioned that I
might use Sondra, but isn't
Cassandra another distributed system that's
not written in.net that why
would I want to have
two distributed systems talking to
each other? Basically all it
is is that the OCHIN
up resistance module has a
pluggable layer to work with
whatever data store you're already
using. Yeah. So I can
introduce OCHA to an environment
where I'm already having some
success with Cassandra. Yeah, exactly.
So, and when I used
aka.net and production, I was
already using Cassandra. And so
I used, I use that
as my sort of backup
for messages that needed to
have some durability. And, but
we have a pull request
out there for SQL server
module. And I think we
have a contributor who wrote
get event store plugin, rocket
oper system. Yeah. Yeah. I
was thinking what this would
look like with service bus.
Yeah. Service bus would be
another one potentially. I think
I've, I've seen some people
want to do integrations. This,
this wouldn't necessarily be an
academic persistence implementation, but Azure
event hubs has been something
that people have been real
interest. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay.
All right. So act a
reference over a transport to
a mailbox. Mailbox is an
internal cue. And then actors,
I assume, have some behavior
that they want to do
based on whether or not
that mailbox message is actionable.
Yeah, Exactly. So when you're
writing your actor code, the
only method you really need
to fill in by default
is what's called the on
receive method. And it just
takes a plain old object
as it's it's sort of
property. And that object is
your message. And so you
have to do a little
bit of, I guess, pattern
matching. This is sort of
the functional programming name for
doing this, where you inspect
the message by its type,
is this message is string,
is this message, Turn it
into a switch statement. How
does my magical distributed system
not turn into a switch
statement of like, are you
a string, right? You're not
gonna use a string So
well, the serialization is handled
for you transparently. So that's
one of the things that's
really nice is that we
have a serialization system that
makes it, so if you're
passing a message to another
actor in memory, that's all
handled via in memory cues.
So there's no network transport
there over remote system. We
sort of abstract the detail
of it being serialized and
just make sure that on
either end of the connection,
you don't have to worry
about it. So we use
a combination of Google protocol,
buffers and binary, Jason for
that nice, Both very fast,
very tight protocols. Yup. And
when you get a message
back, we have a couple
tools you can use in
C sharp for doing pattern
matching. We have an F
sharp API too, and you
can use the builtin powder
matching the, the language supports
right out of the box
there, but in C sharp,
we have two tools for
you. One is we have
a special type of actor
called a receive actor that
allows you to find a
Lambdas and predicates for doing
pattern matching that are strongly
typed, right. And they're also
very fast by the way.
So they get sort compiled
and cashed and you're able
to do things like is
this messages string, and does
the strings start with law
effectively? And that's the sort
of stuff that we're able
to, we're able to sort
of make easy for C
sharp developers. If I'm doing
a distributed system and I've
done, I used to work
in, I don't know if
I told you about this,
but I used to work
in banking, retail banking. So
I worked on a large
based distributed system that
ran a number of large
banks. And we struggled with
the identity, the object identity,
like we like strong types,
but at the same time,
you know, this object is
going to be an account
and I'm going to send
it over to this other
machine. And it needs to
think about an account. Am
I using an interface? Are
we sharing a DLL? Are
we just putting it in
a hash table? You know,
the object identity, as it
relates to serialization has been
a challenge historically. How do
you deal with that? What
we do right now is
for a distributed system where
let's say you have multiple
ocha.net sort of services that
are I've formed a cluster
together. The way we have
people work with that problem
today is making sure you
have a shared assembly that
defines all those common message
definitions that are going to
be passed over the network.
So that way, when we,
you know, Jason Dunn at D
serializes your network requests back
into a poco object, it
has a common definition of
both ends of the wire.
We're playing around with some
ideas now for being able
to do that dynamically without
needing to deploy an assembly
at runtime, because one issue
that comes up is the
notion of version to messages,
right? What if I need
to make an update to
this message? That's a big
part of my, at my
domain. How do I deal
with that? This was a
huge problem for us 15
years ago, because we might
want to change the message,
but there's certain parts of
the system that are, let's
just say it is less
likely to let us drop
in a new DLL. Yup.
So now they're not likely
to let you drop in
a DLL where you have,
you know, the, the payment
gateway or whatever sitting. Right.
So we ended up just
doing hash tables. Yeah. So
one of the things that
we, so a couple of
patterns that I've seen our
users use for dealing with
this one is this the
tolerant reader pattern where you
basically are able to Wallace
systems in a state where
some of it's updated and
some of it's not the
older clients and still read
the parts of the newer
messages without cause of throwing
an exception or failing. So
that's one idea. That's a
Martin Fowler pattern, tolerant reader,
and that's, I personally have
used that and it's been
successful. The other thing I've
seen people do is actually
version when they do have
to do a major change,
you shouldn't be changing your
message types all the time.
Right. Of course do. If
you're lucky, it's additive, it's
additive, right. So when people
need to make a major
change, I've also seen them
use namespaces and their assemblies.
Right. Well, they'll go ahead
and have a separate namespace
for V one V two
V three. And I've personally
done that before, too. So
those are not as elegant
as something that can, you
know, hot load and assembly
definition, or maybe have your
own form of well dynamics
sort of serialization Typing or
some kind of like what
used to called assembly neutral
interfaces, where if it lines
up, right, if you have
an object, regardless of identity,
from a dotnet perspective, I
forgot a person object, and
it's got a first name
and a last name and
they both got strings, your
person, and my person are
equivalent. So I can have
my own implementation of a
person and you can have
your own implementation person. And
they could even even have
different implementations as long as
their public properties line up.
Yeah, exactly. And that's essentially
the taller and reader in
a nutshell. Oh yeah. But
I didn't come up with
the idea and take credit.
You could have had a
Martin Fowler blog post. Yeah.
Take that. Okay. So Then
that enactor does, if I
want, if I, if I'm
an actor that gets a
message and I want to
write to a database, do
I just write to the
database or do I tell
another actor like a child
actor to do that for
me? So that's a great
question. So one of the
benefits of using actors is
reliability and there's a lot
of design patterns around it.
And so Earlings philosophy when
they first really implemented it
was that it is cheaper
just to try something and
let the actor fail or
die than it is to
do, try catch restart and
all this other sort of
stuff that we would normally
do in everyday procedural programming.
But one of the things
we need to do to
make sure that's done reliably
is use some patterns that
delegate dangerous work, like network
calls or parsing, or, you
know, writing to the file
system, to actors that are
purpose built for doing that.
So if you have a
natural factors, would you say
Character, actor, actors, you know
what I mean? I don't
know who we can get
to do this reliably. I
think John Malcovich is available.
Oh, he'll be perfect. Well,
we don't have to worry
about that job. I just
invented that by the way,
suck it Fowler. The character
Article called the character actor.
That's purpose-built actors. There you
go. Purpose-built actors right there.
You know, one of the
things. So one of the
things that took me, like
I'm embarrassed, it took me
this long to figure this
out. So in OCHA, you
use props to create an
actor. Props is like a
formula for basically how you
build an actor. And it
took me like a year
to realize, Oh, because actors
need props in order to
act. Yeah. It was like
on, I was like, man,
I, This is, what's so
fun about object oriented programming
and patterns and stuff like
that is that the, when
the analogies are good, like,
like the ones that you're
using, they resonate. And it
really helps you understand the
system. I mean, in this
case here, this all works
For me. Yup. Okay. So
you said purpose built actors,
character actors, right. We'll go
and do that specific kind
of work and they're reusable.
I assume they're generic. Yeah,
absolutely. And they can be
deployed anywhere and sort of
the actor hierarchy actors are
organized and like a family
tree. So I'll get, it
gives you the sort of
like, well, route actor, the
very top of the, of
the stack. And then every
time you go and create,
what's called a top level
actor. These are the headlines.
There we go. Really good
with the figurative language. Yeah.
I'm ready to go. I'm
going to write a whole
papers on this. So the
head you have your headliner,
then you might have some
supporting actors, the headliner creates.
And then after that you've
got your character actors and
then you might have some
stunt doubles after that, right?
Yeah. Okay. That makes sense.
So there really is a
family tree and they're actually
talking to each other and
there's ownership issues, right? Like
if, if what happens if
the parent dies just everyone
else underneath them go away.
Oh yeah. So if the
parent dies that whole rest
of the actor hierarchy gets
wiped out. Okay. So one
of the things that's built
into actors though, is the
concept of parental supervision. Parents
supervise their children. So if
a child fails, let's go
ahead and say, that customer
actor we had before it
goes and creates a child
actor, we'll call it. It's
a database actor sure. For
writing to the database. And
that actor fails. Let's say,
you know, your connection to
SQL server gets lost or
something. The parent actor will
go ahead and get the
exception that actor threw back
as a message. And it'll
make your decision about what
to do. How should it
reconcile the fate of that
actor? So it has three
choices it can make. One
is it can tell the
actor to restart, which is
the default third choice. Okay.
We're going to go ahead
and reboot this actor back
to its clean state. So
all the internal state and
that child will be wiped
out and it'll go ahead
and use the props that
we created or come, go
back to an initial clean
state. Okay. Take two, take
two. Exactly. And we'll do
up to T by default,
we'll do up to take
10 within some period of
time and then we'll decide,
okay, this actor is permanently
screwed. You'll never work in
this town again, son. Exactly.
And we'll just kill it.
Okay. Then the last thing
that the app that an
actor can do as part
of a supervision strategy is
say, I can't figure this
out. I'm going to escalate
to my parents and see
what's going on. Yeah. Call
their agent exactly. Or call
the producer or Interesting. So
this makes me think about
it in the terms of
exception handling. I'm used to
it as being scoping at
the language level, but this
is exception handling scoped as
a tree of objects. And
rather than the exception throwing
up outside of a call
stack, it's throwing up and
going up within this, this
tree of actors. Okay. You're
monitoring all of that. Like
the larger orchestration framework is
aware of what's going on.
So the actually it's kind
of cool. The it's it's
actually pretty decentralized. So the,
you know, the central OCHA,
Donna actors have no idea
like the system actors that
are responsible for addressing and
all the plumbing and that
stuff. They have no idea
about failures happening way out
on the edge of the
family tree, you know, great
cousin, Jimmy or whatever has
something goes wrong with them.
You know, the top actor
at the top of the
hierarchy has no idea. And
it does because it doesn't
destabilize the entire system. Exactly.
So failures are very, are
local essentially until they're not
right. If you have some
cascading failure that goes all
the way up, then that's
then at that point, the
entire actor, family tree might
reboot. Right? You've got an
extra, he's being a dork,
but it's in the background
of the camera. You don't
worry about it, but the
guy knocks Brad Pitt over,
then we have a problem.
Yes, exactly. Can the system
recover if something really bad
happens? Yes. It can. The
systems are designed. One of
the benefits of actor's systems
is that they are self
healing. So they're able to
recover from failures. And what
might happen is in the
worst case scenario, let's say
like just short of the
process crashing and having to
be restarted. Let's say you
have an acception that kills
off every, all of your
top level actors and they
all need to be restarted.
So it'd be something really
bad. Like some, usually it's
some network resource that, that
application absolutely depends on failing.
That would cause that what
could happen is this is
the, your application will reboot
to its initial state and
start building itself back up
again. And if you're using
capabilities like arc it up,
persistence for some of that
data is backed up to
a database. It can recover
its state on its way
back down. Why would it
be preferable for the AHCA
system to reboot quote unquote
reboot rather than just rebooting
the machine or the Docker
container or the windows, you
know, or the pro at
what point is a reboot,
really a reboot. And when
should you just freshen the
whole thing? Well, the reboot
of the actors is done
solely through your software, right?
Requires no human supervision, making
the choice to reboot a
machine. You can program that,
of course, you know, using
some plugins or the Azure
SDK or something else like
that to go and automatically
do it. Or you can
use like process monitoring tools
to go and do that.
Right. But typically the idea
behind the actor model is
that every single little micro
process, every individual actor can
be rebooted independently if needed.
I hate to do that
though. Like I used to
work on systems where they
were, they had memory leaks,
and rather than dealing with
them, they would just say,
Oh, we'll just recycle this,
you know, every 20 minutes.
So they built in abuse
of rebooting as a part
of the system because they
found it. It was such
a great feature. Do I
want my actors restarting all
the time? No, you don't
want your actors restarting all
the time, because that means
your application by actors only
restart when you throw an
exception. So that means something
you're doing something bad. If
your actors are restarting a
lot, what you do want
though is actors are cheap,
disposable resources. You can go
ahead and create a big
hierarchy of actors for some
job. And then you send
the top actor of that
hierarchy, a poison pill. And
it basically goes and kills
off that entire part of
the tree. That's totally fine
doing that sort of stuff.
All the time. Actors are
cheap. You can fit 2.6
million of them in one
gig of Ram or something
like that. So, you know,
going, going, going back to
our little Hollywood analogy here,
most of them work as
waiters during the daytime anyway.
Right? Exactly. I'm an actor.
Oh, really? What restaurant do
you work at? So this
is a port of OCA
for the JVM. Do you,
do you no longer have
a relationship with them or
do you all hang out
together? How does that work
when you port something between
their language? So we actually
have we at first were
they kind of left us
to our own devices. We
were me and Roger, the
two founders of the ahca.net
project, both kind of were
doing this for our own
independent reasons, teamed up together.
And after the project started
to make some steam from
terms of actually implementing real
features and everything else, we
reached out to type SAPE
and asked if we could
call the framework, AKA net
and their CTO, Jonas, the
original author of AHCA was
like, yeah, sure. Why not?
Oh, that's adorable. Yeah, exactly
random people. Okay. Yeah. Good
luck with that. So, but
then I guess about a
couple of months ago, as
the project started to get
really big and we started
getting a lot more traction
and we had, you know,
hundreds of users and people
tweeting about it. And then
my company Pepperberg bridge started
then Roland, Roland, Coon, the
chief architect of Oka reached
out and said, Hey, you
know, we should probably like
work together to make sure
you guys are, you know,
Lauren, all the same lessons
we learned the hard way
and everything else. Very nice.
Yeah. So we have a
partnership with them. And Roland
actually is there in our,
we have a Gitter chat.
It's like IRC for GitHub,
basically Roland's there. And he
answers questions from time to
time. I've seen him active
over the past few days
and me and the other
contributors we've even reported bugs
and AHCA that we found
when porting things, ahca.net, we
have pretty open communication with
their team. And the thing
that we're really trying to
achieve with a port is
one. We want to make
it idiomatic C sharp and
F sharp, right? We don't
want people to deal with
weird constructs that feel like
they're leftovers from the JVM.
But at the same time,
we also want to preserve
the knowledge that the AHCA
team accrued through years of
super heavy production use AKA
powers, parts of Walmart, Amazon
cloud blizzard, and every single
deployment of Apache spark uses
AHCA under the hood. So
there is a lot of
really heavy usage of their
framework. And so we want
to a lot of, and
a lot of the problems
that come up are really
subtle things that they only
found out because some customer
of theirs ran into it.
No. Now I think I
know the answer to this
cause I did it for
years and I don't mean
to sound like a shell,
but do you think.net can
handle big distributed systems like
this? Absolutely. I've built one
on top, on top of
ocha.net, Cassandra and asp.net. It
totally can. What dot nets
lacked for a long time
in the distributed system space?
I really feel like has
been one a, a culture
and an attitude of we
can do this. You know,
I think there's been a
lot of, I think a
lot of.net developers have maybe
had a, a feeling of
not being good enough to
really take on these problems.
And I think that's BS.
Yeah. There's an inferiority complex
Very already complex. There you
go. So I think that's
BS and I think that's
people are starting to change
their minds about that now
to the second part of
it is, is I think
we've really lacked a good
set of tools for doing
big data for a long
time. I think that a
lot of the innovation there
really came from Python and
JVM sort of sort of
worlds, but in dotnet land,
we're starting to see a
lot more of it. Some
of the other stuff they
showed off at dotnet fringe,
for instance, like Lenas talk
on embrace a is another
really good example of a,
of a powerful, you know,
distributed programming framework that's available
exclusively in.net. So I really
think that net does have
a future In big data.
I don't think that we're
going to, you're going to
see something like hadoop.net anytime
soon. But I do think
for a lot of the
problems that everyday.net developers face
having frameworks like ocha.net and
brace or liens and others
available's tools to do it
will help improve the state
of our art to a
point where this sort of
distributed systems programming is pretty
common in.net. And I think
that will happen over the
next couple of years. Yeah,
absolutely. And I think also
it's on us as people
who've been in the community
for a number of years
to let folks know about
this. I'm finding that the
number one thing I see
in the dotnet community is
that just people don't know
about other really awesome open
source projects. So I appreciate
you bringing ARCA dinette to
us and to me and
sharing with me today on
the show. Well, thank you
very much, Scott. I really
appreciate the opportunity to help
spread the word about alka.net.
And if we can help
empower.net developers out there to
take on challenges that didn't
feel like they could do
before. And that's a huge
win for me in my
book. Very cool. You can
check out AHCA dot net@getahcaakka.net.
Great documentation. Great. Getting started.
You have something interesting running
within 15 minutes. Thanks so
much Aaron standard for chatting
with me today. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.